Hello, everyone.
In this video we're going to configure code light to work with the compiler that we've already installed.
So at this point, we've installed the compiler and we've installed code light.
The first time you run code light, you're going to get a welcome message like this.
And this is basically a setup wizard.
If you don't get this the first time you run code light, you can just come up to help and select run
the setup wizard right there.
Okay.
But I did get the setup wizard.
Also, you might get the light mode or you may get the dark mode.
It really depends on how you've got your Mac set up.
So what we want to do is we do want to run this setup wizard.
So once it comes up, we want to click next.
We want to select c c plus plus development.
Select next again.
And now we're going to ask code light to scan our system for installed compilers.
Since we've already installed a compiler, it should find one.
So I'll select scan and you can see it.
Found a bunch of stuff.
The most important one is the GCC.
That's the one we're going to use.
If you see a GCC there, you're good to go.
So I'm going to select next Then what theme do I want to use?
You can use a light theme or a dark theme.
I'm just going to stick to the dark theme because the light theme, although it comes off better on
video, is giving me some really weird glitchy stuff with the recording that just doesn't look good.
So I'm going to select next.
Don't make any changes here and click finish.
Now code light is going to stop and restart.
And once you're opened up, we're good to go.
Now down here, you can see where it says local workspaces.
There aren't any yet.
Once we start creating workspaces, they will show up here and you can easily go back to previously
used workspaces by just clicking on them.
The idea here is we want to create a workspace and then within that workspace we want to create projects.
Each project would be a working C plus plus program.
So the first step is to create a workspace.
Now, there are several ways to do it.
You can see the workspace view over here.
We can select new Create Workspace, this big button right here.
We can go to workspace, new workspace.
And I believe we can go to file new workspace as well.
So there's a lot of places we could do it.
I'm just going to click this big button right here.
Now, what is the workspace type?
Well, we're going to stick to C plus plus.
That's what we'll be using.
So I'm going to select C plus plus and click okay.
Now it's going to ask me where I want to store these workspaces and what I want to name them.
So you've got some choices here.
You can put them in your documents, you can put them on your desktop.
I'm going to create a path right off of my home directory and I'm going to call it workspaces.
Then I'm going to create as many workspaces as I want within that area.
That way I'm nicely organized, so I'm just going to click this button over here with the three dots,
and right here I'm going to create a new folder and I'm going to call it workspaces.
Let me make that a capital W workspaces.
That's it.
I'll create it.
And I'll select it.
And you can see now that the workspace path is going to be my home folder workspaces and the workspace
name for the workspace that I'm going to create now is going to be called Workspace One.
That can be anything that could be Section five, that could be pointers.
If you're working on pointers, anything that makes sense for you, make sure that create the workspace
under a separate directory is checked and click okay.
Now you can see over here in the Workspace view, you have a workspace created called Workspace One.
Now that's not real useful until we create projects and that's the next step.
Let's create some projects within it.
So we'll start with creating one project.
So I'm going to right click on there and select new project.
Again, you can go up to file new project.
A lot of different ways to do it, but let's just right click on the workspace.
You create a new project?
Okay, so now we've got our new project wizard.
You can see that this project is going to go into Workspace one, which is the workspace we have open.
And what do you want to name your project?
You can name it anything you want.
I'm going to name it Project One.
Now something that's really, really important throughout.
Do not use any spaces anywhere.
Do not use any special characters like pluses and dots and dollar signs and all kinds of weird things
and do not use any international characters.
So just keep it really plain simple.
No spaces, no international characters, no special characters.
Once we do that, we want to check the create the project in folder.
Then what category console.
We're going to run these programs in a terminal window.
The type is going to be simple executable, G plus plus.
So again, simple executable G plus plus.
The compiler we're going to use is the GCC compiler.
You may have other choices here, but just select GCC.
The debugger is going to be the Lldb Vscode debugger.
That's the one on Mac.
And the build system is code light Makefile generator.
And again, you've got some choices here.
Two choices we're going to use that one in version 17.3, which is the version that I'm running now
of code light.
The developer removed the default build system.
Unfortunately that makes it a little tougher for us to configure this.
The default build system work great.
I really don't know why he removed it, but he did.
So we'll deal with it.
At this point, we're going to click okay.
And you can see in the workspace project one has been created.
There is a source folder for our source code and there is our main.cpp file.
So if I double click on that, you can see the source code right there and I'm going to make this a
little bit bigger.
So I'm going to go over to my settings, colors and fonts and I'm going to set the font to something
around 20 or so so you guys can see.
Let's see.
24.
So I'll click okay.
And then I'll click apply and then okay, there we go.
So that fonts a little bit easier to see now on video.
So what are we going to do?
We're going to remove all this and we're going to write a real simple program.
Now notice that when I did that, this little red dot showed up.
What that means is that whatever is in here, in my editor, has not been saved.
So this is a good clue for you to make sure you save everything.
So let's write the program and then we'll worry about saving it.
At this point, just type along and follow along.
The point of this video is to make sure that our development environment is set up.
It's not about learning C plus plus yet.
We'll have plenty of time to do that.
All this will be explained.
So pound include.
We have a left angle bracket or less than sign iostream and the right angle bracket.
Then we're going to say using namespace space STD with a semicolon at the end.
Make sure you have spaces between using namespace and STD.
Now we're going to write the main function, so we're going to type int int space main left n right
per n and then a left curly brace.
And in here we're just going to say C out to left angle brackets side by side, no spaces between them.
And I'm going to say hello world.
That's what I'm going to display.
Make sure that that hello world is within double quotes the whole thing.
Then we have to left angle brackets and end for an end line.
Make sure that that's end and not end one.
And then we're going to return zero with a semicolon at the end.
Make sure there's a space between the return and the zero.
That's it.
Now you can see that that red dot is there.
So I'm going to save this and I'm going to press command S You can also come up to file save file,
but I'm just going to press command s and that little red dot is gone.
Before we build this, we need to configure our compiler to work with this project the way we want.
The way we can do that is you'll notice that Project one right there is bold and italicized that tells
code Light and us that this project is the active project.
Remember, we could have many projects in here.
The active project is the one that's going to be built and run.
So it's really important that we select the one we want.
In this case, there's only one, so it's pretty easy.
So I want to select the project and then I'm going to come up here and click that wrench icon.
I can also right click on the project and come down here to settings.
Same thing.
So I'm just going to click that wrench icon.
And we get our project settings.
Now, most of this we're not going to mess with, we're just going to leave it alone.
Most of this has been set up for us already.
There's one thing that we definitely have to do is this working directory right here.
I'm going to come over here and I'm going to delete what's in there and I'm just going to type dollar
left per N and the word project path with no spaces and both PS are uppercase.
Then I want to press tab.
So dollar left per n project path right per n and the two PS and project path uppercase.
That's it.
Now we'll go over to the compiler.
Select it on the left and right where it says C plus plus compiler options.
I'm just going to click on there and this little button with three dots shows up.
I want to click that and I'm going to come over here and I'm going to select Enable C plus plus 17 features
right there.
That's going to use the C plus plus 17 version of the C plus plus compiler select.
Okay.
At this point, we're done.
I'll select.
Okay.
And now I'm going to come over here and build this project.
I'm going to come up here and I'm going to select Build.
And rebuild the project.
When I do that and output pane comes up down here.
And you get the build.
Notice that the C plus plus 17 shows up over here and so forth.
So this is a good build.
It says build completed successfully.
No errors, no warnings.
Our program has been built, so now we have an executable that we can run.
When we run that executable, we expect it to say Hello world, right?
And that's what we wrote.
Great.
So I'm going to close this.
And I'm going to come up to build and now I'm going to run.
Do we want to build it again and execute?
No, I've already built it.
I just want to execute it.
And we get a terminal up here and you notice it says Hello world right there.
Right there.
So we've got a good build.
We've got a good run.
And it says hit any key to continue and you can hit the key and get used to closing this window like
that by clicking on that little red dot up there.
So that's it.
We've got a program.
It's running.
It's pretty easy to do.
We can create another project, so why don't we do that?
Let's do that.
I'm going to click the workspace again.
Right click.
New new project.
I'm going to put it in the same workspace, but I want to call this one project to.
Again, you can name these anything you want.
Just be sure that there are no spaces, no international characters and no special characters.
I know I say that a lot, but there are so many support questions, and when things don't work, it's
almost always there's a dollar sign somewhere, there's a dot somewhere, there's a percent sign somewhere,
there's a space somewhere.
So be sure you don't have any of that.
So again, make sure create the project in its own folder.
We've got console simple executable g plus plus GCC lldb vs code code light makefile generator.
So it remembered the previous settings I'll select.
Okay.
We'll go over to the project and we'll select the wrench.
We'll come over here to General and in the working directory.
We'll delete what's there.
And we'll replace it with duller open paren project path.
Close the parentheses.
Just like that.
Then we'll come over to compiler.
We'll select the compiler options, the C plus plus compiler options right there.
Click that little button.
Select Enable.
C plus plus 17 Features.
Select.
Okay.
Apply these settings and hit.
And we're done.
Now we can write our code for the project too.
So in this case, you'll notice this is the code for Project one, and you can tell up here where it
says Project One.
If we select this code now, Project two opens up and that's the main CPP file.
So what I'd like to do is I want to reuse this code here, so I'm going to just copy it.
I'm doing command A and then command C to copy.
I'm just going to come in here and paste it with Command V, so I'm just going to say Hello world from
project to.
That's it.
I'm going to save because it was unsaved before.
If I build now, it's going to build Project one because you can see Project one right here is italicized.
Project one is the active project, so we can make Project two, the active project by right clicking
and saying make active, or we can also just double click on it.
Now you can see Project two is italicized and bold and it's good to go.
So now I can build.
And I can build my project or rebuild my project, I'll go into more the differences between those in
the class.
We have a clean build.
I come up to build and run, execute.
And at this point we should see Hello from project to that's exactly what we see.
And you can make this window bigger by just hitting command.
Plus, if you like, you can see a little bit better hit enter to continue.
We're done and we'll close this window up.
That's it.
We're pretty much done with this.
A couple of videos down refer to the video that shows us how to make a default project template because
that'll save us some time from having to do all this stuff over and over and over again.
What we can do is we can create a default project template and then create new projects from it, and
all our settings will be there already.
So the last thing I'd like you to do is to come up to code light preferences.
And go over here to miscellaneous.
And there's a setting right here.
Check for new version on startup.
Uncheck that.
My advice would be once you have a working code, light setup and compiler setup, don't mess with it.
Use it throughout the course.
Many times as developers we want oh, I want the latest and greatest.
That's usually a really bad idea.
The latest and greatest is usually on the bleeding edge.
It's buggy and there's all kinds of issues.
So once you have a working development environment, leave it alone, don't mess with it.
So just uncheck that and this thing won't keep prompting you and pestering you to update to the latest
and greatest, which may not be.
So I'm going to apply click okay.
And at that point we're done.
We're almost ready to start coding.
Refer to the section about creating the default template and I'll see you in the next video.